feat: Added documenation for patternfly cli. (#4981)
patternfly/patternfly-org: packages/documentation-site/patternfly-docs/content/developer-guides/patternfly-cli.md

- **Automate code updates** for repetitive changes.
- **Run workflows** such as init, sync with GitHub, updates, and deploys to GitHub Pages.

## Prerequisites

Before you install the CLI, set up:

1. **[Node.js and npm](https://nodejs.org/)** (supported versions **20–24**).
1. **[Corepack](https://nodejs.org/api/corepack.html)** — included with Node.js; enable it with `corepack enable` after installing Node.
1. **[GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/)** (`gh`) — required for commands that talk to GitHub.

## Install

Install the CLI globally:

```sh
npm install -g @patternfly/patternfly-cli
```

## Check your setup

Run the doctor command to verify prerequisites:

```sh
patternfly-cli doctor
```

To try to fix missing pieces automatically (Corepack and GitHub CLI only):

```sh
patternfly-cli doctor --fix
```

<Alert title="Node.js must be installed separately" variant="warning" isInline>
The `doctor --fix` option does not install or upgrade Node.js. If Node.js is missing or below version 20, install the current **LTS** release from [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/).
</Alert>

## Commands

After installation, run:

```sh
patternfly-cli [command]

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Made a change on how to verify that patternfly cli has been installed. Let me know if it makes since or if the new command should be removed.

---
id: PatternFly CLI
title: PatternFly CLI

> section: developer-guides

Reviewer: ```suggestion
section: get-started
```

just saw your previous reply that this tool is actually more oriented towards designers right now. with that in mind (combined with the technicality of the doc itself), I think your initial suggestion of putting this in the get started section is okay for now actually

---

> The [PatternFly CLI](https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly-cli) is a command-line tool for scaffolding projects, performing code modifications, and running project-related tasks. It aims to streamline development workflows and improve productivity. The published package is [`@patternfly/patternfly-cli` on npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/patternfly-cli).

Reviewer: I did just want to mention that (as someone who has no knowledge of this tool) it's not extremely clear to me why this is a separate tool and why designers will be using this. When I read "streamline development workflows and improve productivity" it just sounds like a general dev accelerator tool, so it might be helpful to more explicitly state why we've created this new tool, why we're doing it now, and what's special about it. If I was a designer I wouldn't necessarily pick up that this tool was intended for me to use

that extra context could go up front or in the next ## Features section

> ## Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What does the PatternFly CLI help with?
```

Maybe some sort of question-formatted heading to help users move through the doc?

- **Project scaffolding:** Quickly set up new PatternFly based projects for development, and prototyping. This is done using predefined templates.
- **Code modifications:** Automate repetitive code changes that helps users upgrade to the latest version of PatternFly.

> - **Task runner:** Execute project-related tasks efficiently, such as source code management and task running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Project scaffolding:** Quickly set up new PatternFly based projects for development and prototyping via predefined templates.
- **Code modifications:** Automate repetitive code changes to help accelerate PatternFly version upgrades.
- **Task runner:** Execute project-related tasks efficiently, such as source code management and task running.
```
would be good to clarify what "task running" means in the last bullet - right now the description doesn't add much extra context for what sort of tasks this might refer to

> ## How do I setup PatternFly CLI?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How do I set up PatternFly CLI?
```

### Prerequisites

> Prerequistes can be found below. For macOS, WSL, and Linux it is recommended that you use [install script](#install-script-macos-and-linux), it covers the items below (you may still need administrator access for system packages). Window based system you will need to install the following yourself before using the CLI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a few key prerequisites to meet before using PatternFly CLI. For macOS, WSL, and Linux, we recommended using [install script](#install-script-macos-and-linux) to address the following prerequisites (you might still need administrator access for system packages). For a Windows-based system, you will need to install the following items manually:
```

- **[Node.js and npm](https://nodejs.org/)** (supported versions **20–24**) — also see [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/).
- **[Corepack](https://nodejs.org/api/corepack.html)** — included with Node.js; enable with `corepack enable` after installing npm.

> - **[GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/)** (`gh`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)** (Supported versions: 20–24) and **[npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)**
- **[Corepack](https://nodejs.org/api/corepack.html)** (Included with Node.js and enabled via `corepack enable` after installing npm)
- **[GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/)** (`gh`)
```

## Installation

### Install script (macOS and Linux)

> You can pipe the repository install script into `bash`. It installs Node.js with [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) when `node` is not available, enables Corepack, installs GitHub CLI when it is missing, then installs the CLI globally from npm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can pipe the repository install script into `bash`. This installs Node.js with [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) when `node` is not available, enables Corepack, installs GitHub CLI when it is missing, and installs the CLI globally from npm:
```

```sh
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/patternfly/patternfly-cli/main/scripts/install.sh | bash
```

> The script may prompt for `sudo` when your system package manager installs GitHub CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script might prompt you to include `sudo` when your system package manager installs GitHub CLI.
```

> ### Windows Install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Windows
```

 After installing the [prerequisites](#prerequisites) on your machine, install the published package globally:

```sh
npm install -g @patternfly/patternfly-cli
```

> ## Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How do I use PatternFly CLI?
```

> After installation, you can verify the latest version of the CLI has been installed by running the following in the termianl:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installation, you can verify the latest version of the CLI has been installed by running the following terminal command:
```

```sh
patternfly-cli -v
```

### Available CLI commands

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the PatternFly CLI is installed, you can run the following commands via `patternfly-cli [command]`:
```

| Command | Usage |
| --- | --- |
| `create` | Create a new project from the available templates. |
| `list` | List all available templates (built-in and optional custom). |
| `update` | Update your project to a newer version. |

> | `cli-upgrade` | Upgrade the globally installed CLI to the latest npm release. It runs `npm install -g @patternfly/patternfly-cli@latest`; use your package manager’s equivalent if you did not install with npm. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `cli-upgrade` | Upgrade the globally installed CLI to the latest npm release. It runs `npm install -g @patternfly/patternfly-cli@latest`&mdash;use your package manager’s equivalent if you did not install with npm. |
```

| `init` | Initialize a git repository and optionally create a GitHub repository. |
| `save` | Commit and push changes to the current branch. |
| `load` | Pull the latest updates from GitHub. |
| `deploy` | Build and deploy your app to GitHub Pages. |

For the most up-to-date flags and behavior guidance, refer to [PatternFly CLI README](https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly-cli/blob/main/README.md) on GitHub.

### Custom templates

> You can add your own templates in addition to the built-in ones by passing a JSON file with `--template-file` (or `-t`). Custom templates are merged with the built-in list; if a custom template has the same `name` as a built-in one, the custom definition is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the built-in templates, you can add your own templates by passing a JSON file with `--template-file` (or `-t`). Custom templates are merged with the built-in list&mdash;if a custom template has the same `name` as a built-in template, the custom definition is used.
```

> **Create with custom templates:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Create a project based on custom templates:**
```

```sh
patternfly-cli create my-app --template-file ./my-templates.json
```

> **List templates including custom file:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**List templates included in custom file:**
```

```sh
patternfly-cli list --template-file ./my-templates.json
```

> **JSON format** (array of template objects, same shape as the built-in templates):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**JSON format** (Array of template objects, shown in the same shape as the built-in templates):
```

```json
[
  {
    "name": "my-template",
    "description": "My custom project template",
    "repo": "https://github.com/org/repo.git",
    "options": ["--single-branch", "--branch", "main"],
    "packageManager": "npm"
  }
]
```

- **`name`** (required): Template identifier.
- **`description`** (required): Short description shown in prompts and `list`.
- **`repo`** (required): Git clone URL.
- **`options`** (optional): Array of extra arguments for `git clone` (e.g. `["--single-branch", "--branch", "main"]`).

> - **`packageManager`** (optional): `npm`, `yarn`, or `pnpm`; defaults to `npm` if omitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`name`** (required): Template identifier
- **`description`** (required): Short description shown in prompts and `list`
- **`repo`** (required): Git clone URL
- **`options`** (optional): Array of extra arguments for `git clone` (such as `["--single-branch", "--branch", "main"]`)
- **`packageManager`** (optional): `npm`, `yarn`, or `pnpm`; defaults to `npm` if omitted
```
